[DOCS] Adds supervised ML workflow description to DFA overview (#1306)
elastic/stack-docs: docs/en/stack/ml/df-analytics/ml-supervised-workflow.asciidoc

[role="xpack"]
[[ml-supervised-workflow]]
= Introduction to supervised learning

> Elastic supervised learning allows you to train a {ml} model based on training 

Reviewer: I always prefer "enable" to "allow" since the former implies a sense of empowerment, whereas the latter makes me think of security/authority or permission to do something.
```suggestion
Elastic supervised learning enables you to train a {ml} model based on training 
```

examples that you provide. You can then use your model to make predictions on 

> new data. This page describes the end-to-end workflow to clarify how you can 

Reviewer: Not a mandatory change, but I think it's helpful to note this is a summary, not a walk-through/tutorial:
```suggestion
new data. This page summarizes the end-to-end workflow for
```

> train a model, evaluate it and deploy it. It gives a high-level overview of the 

Reviewer: Rewording to avoid a succession of "it":
```suggestion
training, evaluating and deploying a model. It gives a high-level overview of the 
```

steps required to identify and implement a solution using supervised learning.

The workflow for supervised learning consists of the following stages:

image::images/ml-dfa-lifecycle-diagram.png["Supervised learning workflow"]

These are iterative stages, meaning that after evaluating each step, you might 
need to make adjustments before you move further.

[[define-problem]]
== Define the problem

It’s important to take a moment and think about where {ml} can be most 
impactful. Consider what type of data you have available and what value it 
holds. The better you know the data, the quicker you will be able to create {ml} 
models that generate useful insights. What kinds of patterns do you want to 
discover in your data? What type of value do you want to predict: a category, or 
a numerical value? The answers help you choose the type of analysis that fits 
your use case.

After you identify the problem, consider which of the {ml-features} are most 

> likely to help you solve it. Unsupervised learning – like {anomaly-detect} or 

Reviewer: > Unsupervised learning... can be trained on.

This feels like a long sentence. Perhaps it can be split into two like this?:

> Supervised learning requires a data set that contains known values that the model can be trained on. Unsupervised learning -- like {anomaly-detect} or {oldetection} does not have this requirement.

{oldetection} – does not require a labelled data set to train the model on while 
supervised learning requires a data set that contains the known values that the 
model can be trained on.

{stack} provides the following types of supervised learning: 

* {regression}: predicts **continuous, numerical values** like the response time 
  of a web request. 
* {classification}: predicts **discrete, categorical values** like whether a 
  https://www.elastic.co/blog/machine-learning-in-cybersecurity-training-supervised-models-to-detect-dga-activity[DNS request originates from a malicious or benign domain]. 

[[prepare-transform-data]]
== Prepare and transform data

You have defined the problem and selected an appropriate type of analysis. The 
next step is to produce a high-quality data set in {es} with a clear 
relationship to your training objectives. If your data is not already in {es}, 
this is the stage where you develop your data pipeline. If you want to learn 
more about how to ingest data into {es}, refer to the 

> {ref}/ingest.html[documentation].

Reviewer: I like to use the target page's title if possible, so readers have a hint of where the link will take them.
```suggestion
{ref}/ingest.html[Ingest node documentation].
```

> {classification-cap} and {regression} are supervised {ml} techniques, therefore 

Author: @joshdevins Thanks for the review. I addressed your comments via 1c30df5

you must supply a labelled data set for training. This is often called the 

> "ground truth". The "ground truth" allows the training process to identify 

Reviewer: It feels a little awkward to repeat this term in close succession. Perhaps reword like this?:
```suggestion
"ground truth". The training process uses this information to identify 
```

relationships among the various characteristics of the data and the predicted 

> value as well as takes a critical role in model evaluation.

Reviewer: If you accept my suggestion for the first part of this sentence, I recommend this change too:
```suggestion
value. It also plays a critical role in model evaluation.
```

An important requirement is a data set that is large enough to train a model. 
For example, if you would like to train a {classification} model that decides 
whether an email is a spam or not, you need a labelled data set that contains 
enough data points from each possible category to train the model. What counts 
as "enough" depends on various factors like the complexity of the problem or 
the {ml} solution you have chosen. There is no exact number that fits every 
use case; deciding how much data is acceptable is rather a heuristic process 
that might involve iterative trials.

Before you train the model, consider preprocessing the data. In practice, the 
type of preprocessing depends on the nature of the data set. Preprocessing can 
include, but is not limited to, mitigating redundancy, reducing biases, applying 
standards and/or conventions, data normalization, and so on.

> {regression-cap} and {classification} requires specifically structured source 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{regression-cap} and {classification} require specifically structured source 
```

data: a two dimensional tabular data structure. For this reason, you might need 
to {ref}/transforms.html[{transform}] your data to create a {dataframe} which 

> can be used as the source for {dfanalytics} like {regression} and 

Reviewer: Since the paragraph started with "regression and classification", I think they're redundant here:
```suggestion
can be used as the source for these types of {dfanalytics}.
```

> {classification}.

Reviewer: If you accept the suggestion for the first part of this sentence, you must also remove this part:
```suggestion

```

[[train-test-iterate]]
== Train, test, iterate

After your data is prepared and transformed into the right format, it is time to 
train the model. Training is an iterative process — every iteration is followed 

> by an evaluation to see how the model performs. When you are satisfied with the 

Reviewer: > When you are satisfied with the results...

This sentence (or two, if you split it) feel like they belong at the end of this section instead of the beginning.  They seem to be about transitioning from training to deploying, so I think they'd make more sense at the end.

> results, you are ready to deploy the model otherwise you may want to adjust the 

Reviewer: I like shorter, digestible sentences, so I'd suggest splitting this in two:
```suggestion
results, you are ready to deploy the model. Otherwise, you may want to adjust the 
```

training configuration or consider alternative ways to preprocess and represent 
your data.

The first step is defining the features – the relevant fields in the data set – 
that will be used for training the model. By default, all the fields with 
supported types are included in {regression} and {classification} automatically. 

> However, you can exclude irrelevant fields optionally from the process. Doing so 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, you can optionally exclude irrelevant fields from the process. Doing so 
```

> makes a large dataset more manageable, reducing the computing resources and time 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
makes a large data set more manageable, reducing the computing resources and time 
```

required for training.

> Now define how to split your data into a training and a test set. The test set 

Reviewer: "Now" feels odd to me since they're not actually doing any of this "now". They're thinking about the order they need to do things in the future when they actually tackle this workflow. I suggest something like "next":
```suggestion
Next you must define how to split your data into a training and a test set. The test set 
```

> won’t be used to train the model, but is used to evaluate how the model 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
won’t be used to train the model; it is used to evaluate how the model 
```

performs. There is no optimal percentage that fits all use cases, it depends on 
the amount of data and the time you have to train. For large data sets, you may 
want to start with a low training percent to complete an end-to-end iteration in 
a short time.

> During the training process, the training data that contains the ground truth 

Reviewer: I think this extra info is unnecessary:
```suggestion
During the training process, the training data 
```

> you want to learn from is fed through the learning algorithm. The model predicts 

Reviewer: Likewise, I think readers understand what training data is by this point:
```suggestion
is fed through the learning algorithm. The model predicts 
```

the value and compares it to the ground truth then the model is fine-tuned to 
make the predictions more accurate.

> Once the model has been trained, it will be tested on how well it predicts for 

Reviewer: This switch to "will be" is unexpected. I'd suggest sticking with the present:
```suggestion
Once the model is trained, you can evaluate how well it predicts 
```

> previously unseen data. This test provides an estimate of a quantity known as 

Reviewer: I found "an estimate of a quantity" confusing, so if possible it would be simpler to just omit that:
```suggestion
previously unseen data with
```

the model generalization error. There are further 
<<ml-dfanalytics-evaluate,evaluation types>> for both {regression} and 
{classification} analysis which provide metrics about training performance. 
Depending on the evaluation results, you may wish to iterate.

[[deploy-model]]
== Deploy model

You have trained the model and are satisfied with the performance. The last step 
is to deploy your trained model and start using it on new data.

The Elastic {ml} feature called {infer} enables you to make predictions for new 
data either by using it as a processor in an ingest pipeline, in a continuous 
{transform} or as an aggregation at search time. When new data comes into your 
ingest pipeline or you run a search on your data with an {infer} aggregation, 
the model is used to infer against the data and make predictions on it.

[[next-steps]]
== Next steps

* Read more about how to {ref}/transforms.html[transform you data] into an 
  entity-centric index.
* Consult the documentation to learn more about <<dfa-regression,regression>> 
  and <<dfa-classification,classification>>.

> * Learn how to evaluate <<ml-dfanalytics-regression-evaluation,regression>> and 

Reviewer: I thought these were the same links as the previous sentence, since they have the same name. I suggest linking the "evaluate" term instead:
```suggestion
* Learn how to <<ml-dfanalytics-evaluate,evaluate>> regression and 
```

>   <<ml-dfanalytics-classification,classification>> models.

Reviewer: If you accept the suggestion on the first part of this sentence, please make this one too:
```suggestion
classification models.
```

[role="xpack"]
[[ml-supervised-workflow]]
= Introduction to supervised learning

Elastic supervised learning allows you to train a {ml} model based on training 
examples that you provide. You can then use your model to make predictions on 

> unseen data. This page describes the end-to-end workflow to clarify how you can 

Reviewer 2: suggest `You can then use your model to make predictions on new data.`

train a model and deploy it to answer the right questions and solve your 
problem. It gives a high-level overview of the steps required to identify and 
implement a solution to a problem using supervised learning.

The workflow for supervised learning consists of the following stages:

image::images/ml-dfa-lifecycle-diagram.png["Supervised learning workflow"]

These are iterative stages, meaning that after evaluating each step, you might 
need to make adjustments before you move further.

[[define-problem]]
== Define the problem

It’s important to take a moment and think about where {ml} can be most 
impactful. Consider what type of data you have available and what value it 
holds. What business problems do you want to solve by analyzing this data? The 
better you know the data, the quicker you will be able to create {ml} models 
that generate useful insights. It is crucial to think through the problem and 
set clear objectives. Find the answer to questions like these: What kinds of 
patterns do you want to discover in your data? What type of value do you want to 
predict: a category, or a numerical value? The answers help you choose the type 

> of analysis that fits your use case.

Reviewer 2: this para feels a bit untidy.

After you identify the problem, consider which of the {ml-features} are most 
likely to help you solve it. Unsupervised learning – like {anomaly-detect} or 
{oldetection} – does not require a labelled data set to train the model on while 
supervised learning requires a data set that contains the known values or 

> examples that the model can be trained on.

Reviewer 2: suggest remove `or examples`

{stack} provides the following types of supervised learning: 

* {regression}: predicts **continuous, numerical values** like the response time 
  of a web request. 
* {classification}: predicts **discrete, categorical values** like whether a 
  https://www.elastic.co/blog/machine-learning-in-cybersecurity-training-supervised-models-to-detect-dga-activity[DNS request originates from a malicious or benign domain]. 

[[prepare-transform-data]]
== Prepare and transform data

You have defined the problem and selected an appropriate type of analysis. The 
next step is to produce a high-quality data set in {es} with a clear 
relationship to your training objectives. If your data is not already in {es} or 
you are not collecting all of the necessary information, this is the stage where 
you develop your data pipeline. If you want to learn more about how to ingest 

> data into {es}, refer to the {ref}/ingest.html[documentation].

Reviewer 2: suggest remove `or you are not collecting all of the necessary information`

{classification-cap} and {regression} are supervised {ml} techniques, therefore 
you must 
supply a labelled data set for training. This is often called the "ground truth" 

> as it consists of the observed examples on which you can train the model. The 

Reviewer 2: suggest remove `as it consists of the observed examples on which you can train the model.`

{regression-cap} and {classification} requires specifically structured source 
data: a two dimensional tabular data structure. For this reason, you might need 
to {ref}/transforms.html[{transform}] your data to create a {dataframe} which 
can be used as the source for {dfanalytics} like {regression} and 
{classification}.

[[train-test-iterate]]
== Train, test, iterate

After your data is prepared and transformed into the right format, it is time to 
train the model. Training is an iterative process — every round of iteration is 
followed by an evaluation to see how the model performs. When you are satisfied 
with the results, you are ready to deploy the model otherwise you may want to 
adjust the training configuration or consider alternative ways to preprocess and 
represent your data.

The first step is defining the features – the relevant fields in the data set – 
that will be used for training the model. By default, all the fields with 
supported types are included in classification and regression automatically. 
However, you can exclude irrelevant fields optionally from the process. Doing so 
makes a large dataset more manageable and by reducing the computing resources 

> and time required for training.

Reviewer 2: typo? `Doing so makes a large dataset more manageable, reducing the computing resources 
and time required for training.`

Author: Yes, I think we edited out something incompletely. Thanks for spotting it!

Now define how to split your training data, using what's called the train-test 
split. There is no optimal percentage that fits for all use cases, it depends on 
the amount of data and the time you have to train. The test set won’t be used to 

> train the model, but only for testing during the learning process.

Reviewer 2: Suggest 
`Now define how to split your data into a training set and a test set. The test set won’t be used to train the model, but is used to evaluate how the model performs. There is no optimal percentage that fits all use cases, it depends on the amount of data and the time you have to train.`

Potentially include something to say for large data sets (e.g. >100k docs) then you may wish to start with a very low training percent - just to complete an end to end iteration in a short time.

During the training process, the training data that contains the ground truth 
you want to learn from is fed through the learning algorithm. The model predicts 
the value and compares it to the ground truth then the model is fine-tuned to 
make the predictions more accurate.

Once the model has been trained, it will be tested on  how well it predicts for 
previously unseen data. This test provides an estimate of a quantity known as 
the model generalization error. There are further evaluation types for both 
{classification} and {regression} analysis which provide metrics about training 

> performance. 

Reviewer 2: Do we need a link to Evaluation here?

I think we should close off this section with another mention that depending on the result of the evaluation, you may wish to iterate.

[[deploy-model]]
== Deploy model

You have trained the model and are satisfied with the performance. The last step 
is to deploy your trained model and start using it on new data.

Trained models are stored as {es} documents in an internal index. The Elastic 
{ml} feature called {infer} enables you to use the model in a continuous fashion 
either by using it as a processor in an ingest pipeline, in a continuous 
{transform} or as an aggregation at search time. When new data comes into your 
ingest pipeline or you run a search on your data with an {infer} aggregation, 

> the model is used to infer against the data and make predictions on it.

Reviewer 2: It seems out of place to mention an implementation detail such as `Trained models are stored as {es} documents in an internal index.`

Phase `enables you to use the model in a continuous fashion` doesn't feel quite right. Inference enables you to make predictions for new data. This could be done thru ingest, continuous transforms or an agg.

[role="xpack"]
[[ml-supervised-workflow]]
= Supervised {ml} workflow

Elastic supervised learning allows you to train a {ml} model based on training 
examples that you provide. You can then use your model to make predictions on 
unseen data. This page describes the end-to-end workflow to clarify how you can 
train a model and deploy it to answer the right questions and solve your 
problem. It gives a high-level overview of the steps required to identify and 
implement a solution to a problem using supervised learning.

The workflow for supervised learning consists of the following stages:

* Define the problem
* Prepare and transform data
* Train and test the model
* Deploy the model

> [DIAGRAM]

Author: ```suggestion
include::ml/lifecycle.adoc[lines=15..26]```

> include::ml/lifecycle.adoc[lines=15..26]```

Author: ```suggestion
include::ml/lifecycle.adoc[lines=15..26]
```

make the predictions more accurate.

Once the model has been trained, it will be tested on  how well it predicts for 
previously unseen data. This test provides an estimate of a quantity known as 
the model generalization error. There are further evaluation types for both 
{classification} and {regression} analysis which provide metrics about training 
performance. 

[[deploy-model]]
== Deploy model

You have trained the model and are satisfied with the performance. The last step 
is to deploy your trained model and start using it on new data.

Trained models are stored as {es} documents in an internal index. The Elastic 
{ml} feature called {infer} enables you to use the model in a continuous fashion 
either by using it as a processor in an ingest pipeline, in a continuous 
{transform} or as an aggregation at search time. When new data comes into your 
ingest pipeline or you run a search on your data with an {infer} aggregation, 
the model is used to infer against the data and make predictions on it.

[[next-steps]]
== Next steps

* Read more about how to {ref}/transforms.html[transform you data] into an 
  entity-centric index.

> * Consult the documentation to learn more about <<dfa-regression>> and 

Author: ```suggestion
* Consult the documentation to learn more about <<dfa-regression,regression>> and 
```

>   <<dfa-classification>>.

Author: ```suggestion
  <<dfa-classification,classification>>.
```

> * Learn how to evaluate <<ml-dfanalytics-classification,classification>> and 

Author: ```suggestion
* Learn how to evaluate <<ml-dfanalytics-regression-evaluation,regression>> and 
```

>   <<ml-dfanalytics-regression-evaluation,regression>> models.

Author: ```suggestion
  <<ml-dfanalytics-classification,classification>> models.
```
